<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [Numbers][1]
    -   [randomInt][2]
        -   [Parameters][3]
    -   [randomFloat][4]
        -   [Parameters][5]
    -   [normalize][6]
        -   [Parameters][7]
    -   [normalizeToRange][8]
        -   [Parameters][9]
-   [Arrays][10]
    -   [summarize][11]
        -   [Parameters][12]
    -   [chunk][13]
        -   [Parameters][14]
    -   [flatten][15]
        -   [Parameters][16]
-   [ArraysObjective][17]
    -   [groupBy][18]
        -   [Parameters][19]
    -   [sortBy][20]
        -   [Parameters][21]
    -   [min][22]
        -   [Parameters][23]
    -   [max][24]
        -   [Parameters][25]
    -   [normalizeByKey][26]
        -   [Parameters][27]
    -   [normalizeByKeys][28]
        -   [Parameters][29]
    -   [normalizeAuto][30]
        -   [Parameters][31]
    -   [hierarchyFromFlat][32]
        -   [Parameters][33]
-   [ArraysNumerical][34]
    -   [sum][35]
        -   [Parameters][36]
    -   [max][37]
        -   [Parameters][38]
    -   [min][39]
        -   [Parameters][40]
-   [Strings][41]
    -   [checkNull][42]
        -   [Parameters][43]
    -   [removeNonPrintable][44]
        -   [Parameters][45]
    -   [removeNonPathable][46]
        -   [Parameters][47]
    -   [createUniqueID][48]
-   [StringsCyrillic][49]
    -   [allWords][50]
        -   [Parameters][51]
-   [StringsLatin][52]
    -   [allWords][53]
        -   [Parameters][54]
    -   [removeNonAlphaNumeric][55]
        -   [Parameters][56]
    -   [removeNonAlpha][57]
        -   [Parameters][58]
-   [MockData][59]
    -   [range][60]
        -   [Parameters][61]
    -   [packData][62]
        -   [Parameters][63]
    -   [networkData][64]
        -   [Parameters][65]
-   [Sort][66]
    -   [bubbleSort][67]
        -   [Parameters][68]
    -   [insertionSort][69]
        -   [Parameters][70]
    -   [mergeSort][71]
        -   [Parameters][72]
    -   [quickSort][73]
        -   [Parameters][74]

## Numbers

Class for working with numbers and numerical data.

### randomInt

Get a random integer between the given range.

#### Parameters

-   `min` **[Number][75]** Minimum extent.
-   `max` **[Number][75]** Maximum extent.

Returns **[Number][75]** The random integer between the min and max input.

### randomFloat

Get a random float between the given range.

#### Parameters

-   `min` **[Number][75]** Minimum extent.
-   `max` **[Number][75]** Maximum extent.

Returns **[Number][75]** The random float between the min and max input.

### normalize

Normalize a number between 0 and 1 based on a known minimum and maximum value.

#### Parameters

-   `val` **[Number][75]** The value to normalize.
-   `min` **[Number][75]** Minimum extent.
-   `max` **[Number][75]** Maximum extent.

Returns **[Number][75]** The random float between the min and max input.

### normalizeToRange

Normalize a number between a custom range (max,min) based on a known minimum and maximum value
of the original dataset.

#### Parameters

-   `val` **[Number][75]** The value to normalize.
-   `minOriginal` **[Number][75]** The minimum extent in the original range.
-   `maxOriginal` **[Number][75]** The maximum extent in the original range.
-   `minNew` **[Number][75]** The minimum extent in the new, custom range.
-   `maxNew` **[Number][75]** The maximum extent in the new, custom range.

Returns **[Number][75]** 

## Arrays

Class for working with arrays of any types

### summarize

Find unique items within the array and count frequency of occurrence
within the array.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array of values (string, number).

Returns **[Object][77]** Object containing the unique keys of the array, and
counts of occurrence in the source array.

### chunk

Chunk one flat array into a series of arrays of a certain size.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array of values (string, number, etc.).
-   `size` **[Number][75]** The size of chunks to split the array into.

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Array][76]>** An array containing arrays of the specified size, containing
the original data from the flat array.

### flatten

Flattens n-nested arrays into one array of values.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array containing arrays nested to any amount (n).
-   `result`   (optional, default `[]`)

Returns **[Array][76]** A flat array of values/objects extracted from the nested arrays.

## ArraysObjective

Class for working with arrays containing objects with key/value data.

### groupBy

Group an array of objects by similar properties.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Object][77]>** An array of objects with similar properties.
-   `key` **[String][78]** The unique key to group by.

Returns **[Object][77]** Object containing child objects which contain the individual
data points corresponding to the property key used for grouping.

### sortBy

Sort an array of objects with similar properties by a shared key's value.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Object][77]>** An array of objects with similar properties.
-   `key` **[String][78]** The unique key to merge by.
-   `descending` **[Boolean][79]** Whether to merge descending (default), or ascending. (optional, default `true`)

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Object][77]>** Array of objects sorted by the key's value across occurrences.

### min

Get the minimum value of a key in an array containing objects with that key.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array containing objects.
-   `key` **[String][78]** A key which exists in the objects in the array, with associated numerical values.

Returns **[Number][75]** The minimum value of all the keys in the object array.

### max

Get the maximum value of a key in an array containing objects with that key.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array containing objects.
-   `key` **[String][78]** A key which exists in the objects in the array, with associated numerical values.

Returns **[Number][75]** The maximum value of all the keys in the object array.

### normalizeByKey

Normalize the values in an object array associated with a specific key between 0 and 1 or a custom range
based on the minimums and maximums contained in the object array by that key.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array containing objects.
-   `key` **[String][78]** A key which exists in the objects in the array, with associated numerical values.
-   `newMin` **[Number][75]** (Optional) A custom minimum value to normalize to. (optional, default `0`)
-   `newMax` **[Number][75]** (Optional) A custom maximum value to normalize to. (optional, default `1`)

Returns **[Array][76]** The modified object array.

### normalizeByKeys

Normalize the values in an object array associated with specific keys between 0 and 1 or a custom range
based on the minimums and maximums contained in the object array by those keys.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array containing objects.
-   `keys` **[Array][76]&lt;[String][78]>** An array of keys which exists in the objects in the array, with associated numerical values.
-   `newMin` **[Number][75]** (Optional) A custom minimum value to normalize to. (optional, default `0`)
-   `newMax` **[Number][75]** (Optional) A custom maximum value to normalize to. (optional, default `1`)

Returns **[Array][76]** The modified object array.

### normalizeAuto

Normalize all the values in an object array associated with keys which have numerical value pairs
between 0 and 1 or a custom range based on the minimums and maximums contained in the object array
by those keys.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]** A an array containing objects.
-   `newMin` **[Number][75]** (Optional) A custom minimum value to normalize to. (optional, default `0`)
-   `newMax` **[Number][75]** (Optional) A custom maximum value to normalize to. (optional, default `1`)

Returns **[Array][76]** The modified object array.

### hierarchyFromFlat

Turn a flat array of objects containing common properties into a nested object
hierarchy based on parent/child keys. ex. Folders, File Versions, etc.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Object][77]>** A an array of objects.
-   `parentKey` **[String][78]** The common property of the objects to establish primary identity.
-   `childKey` **[String][78]** The common property of the objects to establish parent -> child relationships.

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Object][77]>** An array of objects, nested using the .children accessor based on the
parent -> child hierarchy established.

## ArraysNumerical

Class for working with arrays containing numbers and numerical data.

### sum

Sum the values of an array.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** A an array of values to sum.

Returns **[Number][75]** The sum of values in the array.

### max

Get the maximum value in the array.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** A an array of numerical values.

Returns **[Number][75]** The maximum of the values in the array.

### min

Get the minimum value in the array.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** A an array of numerical values.

Returns **[Number][75]** The minimum of the values in the array.

## Strings

Class for working with string data.

### checkNull

Check whether a string is null/empty and return a workable string.

#### Parameters

-   `str` **[String][78]** The string to check for null/empty.

Returns **[String][78]** A full or empty string.

### removeNonPrintable

Remove non-printable (non-ASCII) characters from a string.

#### Parameters

-   `str` **[String][78]** The string to clean of non-printable characters.

Returns **[String][78]** String without the non-ASCII characters.

### removeNonPathable

Remove non-pathable characters from a string.

#### Parameters

-   `str` **[String][78]** The string to clean of non-pathable characters.

Returns **[String][78]** String without the path-breaking characters.

### createUniqueID

Create a random, unique identifier string.

Returns **[String][78]** A random string with alpha-numeric characters.

## StringsCyrillic

Class for working with Cyrillic string data.

### allWords

Get an array of all the Cyrillic words from a monolithic string.

#### Parameters

-   `str`  The string to break up into individual words.

Returns **RegExpMatchArray** An array of individual Cyrillic words.

## StringsLatin

Class for working with Latin string data.

### allWords

Get an array of all the words from a monolithic string.

#### Parameters

-   `str`  The string to break up into individual words.

Returns **RegExpMatchArray** An array of individual words.

### removeNonAlphaNumeric

Remove non-alpha-numeric characters from a string.

#### Parameters

-   `str` **[String][78]** The string to clean of non-alpha-numeric characters.

Returns **[String][78]** String without characters that aren't letters or numbers.

### removeNonAlpha

Remove non-alphabetic characters from a string.

#### Parameters

-   `str` **[String][78]** The string to clean of non-alphabetic characters.

Returns **[String][78]** String with characters which are only EN letters.

## MockData

Class for creating mock data for algorithm/visualization testing.

### range

Get a filled array of the corresponding size.

#### Parameters

-   `size` **[Number][75]** The amount of numbers in the array.

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** A filled array the length of the specified size.

### packData

Create mock data for a circle-packing algorithm.

#### Parameters

-   `size`  The amount of data points to create

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;{r: [number][75], spaceType: ([string][78]), id: [Number][75]}>** An array of objects which
can be used as circles in circle-packing algorithm testing.

### networkData

Create mock data for a network/graph algorithm.

#### Parameters

-   `size`  The amount of data points to create

Returns **{nodes: [Array][76]&lt;{size: [Number][75], x: null, y: null}>, links: [Array][76]&lt;{source: [number][75], target: [number][75]}>}** An array
of objects which can be used as nodes and connections in network/graph algorithm testing scenarios.

## Sort

Class for sorting arrays containing numerical data.

### bubbleSort

Sort an array of numbers using the Bubble Sort algorithm.
Iterating through all items in the array, we compare the current item with the next
one in the array. If the current one is greater, the positions are swapped. This is repeated
until there is no more swapping necessary.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of numbers to merge.

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of sorted numbers.

### insertionSort

Sort an array of numbers using the Insertion Sort algorithm.
Insertion merge is a simple sorting algorithm that builds the final sorted array (or list) one item at a time.
The array elements are compared with each other sequentially and then arranged simultaneously
in some particular order. The analogy can be understood from the style we arrange a deck of cards.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of numbers to merge.

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of sorted numbers.

### mergeSort

Sort an array of numbers using the Merge Sort algorithm.
The MergeSort function repeatedly divides the array into two halves until we reach a stage where
we try to perform MergeSort on a subarray of size 1 i.e. p == r. After that, the merge function comes
into play and combines the sorted arrays into larger arrays until the whole array is merged.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of numbers to merge.

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of sorted numbers.

### quickSort

Sort an array of numbers using the Quick Sort algorithm.
QuickSort is a Divide and Conquer algorithm. It picks an element as pivot and partitions the given array around
the picked pivot. There are many different versions of quickSort that pick pivot in different ways.

#### Parameters

-   `array` **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of numbers to merge.

Returns **[Array][76]&lt;[Number][75]>** An array of sorted numbers.

[1]: #numbers

[2]: #randomint

[3]: #parameters

[4]: #randomfloat

[5]: #parameters-1

[6]: #normalize

[7]: #parameters-2

[8]: #normalizetorange

[9]: #parameters-3

[10]: #arrays

[11]: #summarize

[12]: #parameters-4

[13]: #chunk

[14]: #parameters-5

[15]: #flatten

[16]: #parameters-6

[17]: #arraysobjective

[18]: #groupby

[19]: #parameters-7

[20]: #sortby

[21]: #parameters-8

[22]: #min

[23]: #parameters-9

[24]: #max

[25]: #parameters-10

[26]: #normalizebykey

[27]: #parameters-11

[28]: #normalizebykeys

[29]: #parameters-12

[30]: #normalizeauto

[31]: #parameters-13

[32]: #hierarchyfromflat

[33]: #parameters-14

[34]: #arraysnumerical

[35]: #sum

[36]: #parameters-15

[37]: #max-1

[38]: #parameters-16

[39]: #min-1

[40]: #parameters-17

[41]: #strings

[42]: #checknull

[43]: #parameters-18

[44]: #removenonprintable

[45]: #parameters-19

[46]: #removenonpathable

[47]: #parameters-20

[48]: #createuniqueid

[49]: #stringscyrillic

[50]: #allwords

[51]: #parameters-21

[52]: #stringslatin

[53]: #allwords-1

[54]: #parameters-22

[55]: #removenonalphanumeric

[56]: #parameters-23

[57]: #removenonalpha

[58]: #parameters-24

[59]: #mockdata

[60]: #range

[61]: #parameters-25

[62]: #packdata

[63]: #parameters-26

[64]: #networkdata

[65]: #parameters-27

[66]: #sort

[67]: #bubblesort

[68]: #parameters-28

[69]: #insertionsort

[70]: #parameters-29

[71]: #mergesort

[72]: #parameters-30

[73]: #quicksort

[74]: #parameters-31

[75]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[76]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[77]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[78]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[79]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean
